Introduction
Major drivers for the spread of transboundary animal and plant pests and diseases and alien invasive aquatic species are international trade and traffic (except for migratory pests’ like Locust and birds etc). Quarantine is the group of measures taken by the state to prevent the introduction and spread of pests, diseases, and weeds presenting the greatest danger to agriculture. In the Indo-Pak subcontinent, the plant quarantine work was formally initiated with the promulgation of the Destructive Insect and Pests Act, 1914.
Pakistan becomes a signatory to International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC): a multilateral treaty under the auspices of the Food and Agriculture Organization FAO). According to IPPC, every signatory has to designate one of its departments as National Plant Protection Organization (NPPO). The Department of Plant Protection (DPP), Pakistan is functioning as NPPO for Pakistan.
The country evolved Pakistan Plant Quarantine Rule. 1967 in light of Destructive Insect and Pests Act, 1914 and later on promulgated its own Act with the title:
Pakistan Plant Quarantine Act. 1976.
The mandate of DPP is to enhance the phytosanitary capabilities of the country and to check pest and disease spread on crops. With agreeing WTO-SPS negotiated IPPC in 1997, this mandate is enlarged to facilitate the trade of agricultural commodities under the VTO agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS).
DPP regulates the country’s international trade of agro-commodities ¡n accordance with the guidelines! International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures (ISPNIs) through its Plant Quarantines Outposts established on all seaports, international air terminals, dry ports, and international borders. All the imports are subjected to Pest Risk Analysis and inspection/ treatment prior to issuances of Import Permits (IPs) and Release Orders (ROs). The exports are regulated by the issuance of Phytosanitary Certificates (PCs) according to the requirements and trade agreements signed with the importing countries.