APTAC Meeting Minutes
The Federal Pesticide Testing and Reference Laboratory located at the Department of Plant Protection, Karachi. This laboratory was established to analyze and test formulated pesticide samples for registration to ensure and streamline the import of pesticide as per registered composition and specification, and to provide quality control at the time of import, etc.
Operating Under: Agriculture Pesticide Ordinance 1971 As amended up to 1997
Established: 1992 under TCP/Pak/0051
Became Functional: December 1996 vide S.R.O. 847 (I) 96
Functions: I] Testing Samples for Registration, Sent by importer under
Rule 4 of APR 1973.
II] Testing Samples for Appeal, Sent by importer subsection (2)
under Section 17 of APR 1971.
III] Samples acquired at the time of imports of pesticide for
quality control.
IV] Sample Testing of officially purchased Chemicals.
V] Training of provincial Chemists.
VI] Testing samples on farmers request under section 20
Functions of Pesticides Laboratory
The functions of the Pesticides Laboratory have been defined under the
Section 20 of the Agriculture Pesticides Rule 1973 as under:
(a) to analyze and test such samples of pesticides as may be sent
to it under the ordinance and these rules; and
(b) to carry out such other duties as may be entrusted to it by the
Federal Government or a Provincial Government.
STRENGTH OF FPTRL
Senior Chemist (BPS-18), (Govt. Analyst), Plant Pathologist (BPS-17), Chemist (BPS-17), Asst. Chemist (I), Asst. Chemist (II), and Asst. Chemist (III)
Associated Labs
Associated Labs are established in consultation with the provincial agricultural department by the federal government and are declared as provincial pesticide laboratories to carry out the functions entrusted under Agricultural Pesticide Act. 1997. A list of the existing associated pesticides laboratories are given below:
- Pesticides Testing Laboratory, Department of Agriculture, Lahore, Punjab.
- Pesticides Testing Laboratory, Plant Protection Institute, Faisalabad, Punjab.
- Pesticides Testing Laboratory, Department of Agriculture, Multan, Punjab.
- Pesticides Quality Control Laboratory, Bahawalpur, Punjab.
- Pesticides Quality Control & Testing Laboratory, Hyderabad, Sindh.
- Pesticides Testing Laboratory, Department of Agriculture Rohri, Sindh.
- Pesticides Testing Laboratory, Mirpur Khas, Sindh.
- Pesticides Testing Laboratory, Agricultural Research Institute, Tarnab, Peshawar.
- Pesticides Quality Control and Research Laboratory, Quetta, Balochistan.