faqs
Choose fertile loamy or sandy soil for growing sorghum
- If the land is to be prepared by ploughing, 3 to 4 harrows should be given, but if a tractor is to be used, then the land should be left open for 3 weeks after each harrowing. After that, 2 harrows of a cultivator or one harrow of a rotavator should be given to prepare the land for planting.
There are three common methods of cultivating sarin
1- Seedling method
2- Stubble method
3- Ridge method
In the lowland, hard, rocky soils where water constantly stagnates, zinc deficiency occurs. For this, zinc sulfate (20%) at the rate of 16 kg per acre or zinc sulfate (36%) manufactured in Australia or China at the rate of 9 kg per acre mixed with the same amount of dry soil or humus fertilizer should be applied 15 to 20 days after sowing.
When the beans are 95 percent ripe and show a pale yellow color in the husk, start harvesting.
For wheat, choose a soil that is fertile and rich in organic matter. But if it is poor, fertilize the soil with three truckloads of well-rotted manure mixed with manure a month before planting wheat.
- There are three common methods of wheat cultivation
1-Stubble cultivation 2-River cultivation 3-Nari cultivation
Water the wheat crop six times
To protect wheat from storage pests, it should be packed in clean bags and the dirty bags should be cleaned. For small-scale storage of wheat at home, the wheat should be dried thoroughly, placed in clean bags, covered with damp leaves, covered with cotton wool, and stored in an open, ventilated and shady place.
For good growth of the yam crop, one should choose fertile soil that has the ability to absorb water and retain it for a long time. Especially soft loamy or loamy soil should be chosen. In the selected soil, make deep grooves in the soil in such a way that each yam gets water separately.
Sugarcane cultivation requires a warm and humid climate, mostly free from mercury, for best yields, while the crop is also able to tolerate mild winters.
For sugarcane fields, three to four rounds of ploughing or threshing should be carried out. If the land has not been ploughed for the past three years, deep ploughing is also recommended. After that, the soil should be properly prepared for cultivation.
Sugarcane is planted in the spring and autumn seasons. Spring planting can be done from February 15 to the end of March, and autumn planting can be done from August 15 to the end of September. Sugarcane planted in the autumn season yields 30 to 40 percent more than sugarcane planted in the spring season.